>>NARRATOR: And now,
world-renowned spirit medium,
James Van Praagh.
>>JAMES VAN PRAAGH:
Hi, everyone.
Hi.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much
for joining me.
Thank you at home,
also, for joining me
on "Spirit Talk," where I take
you one step closer to heaven.
So today we're going to go
through a subject matter which
is held deeply in my heart,
because I am someone who works
from this point of view,
in that today we're
going to discuss healing.
How many of you in
this room need healing?
Anybody not raising their hand?
OK.
So healing, many people
don't know really
what we mean by healing,
so for today's show
I'm just going to share with
you my interpretation of healing
for just this hour, what
we're going to go through.
Healing to me is balance.
Everything is energy.
Energy meaning that everything,
molecules or electrodes--
and really vibrating and moving
at a certain rate of speed,
and we are pure energy.
We are just pure energy.
This body that we have
here is just an illusion.
It really is, sorry.
You the driver, being the
soul, are inside a car.
This is the outside of the car.
You are the soul inside that car
that really gets from one place
to another.
So it's very, very important
that we realize, number one,
that we are energy.
We are pure energy, and,
really, energy cannot die.
Energy changes form.
And I think as souls we
come back on this level
to learn various lessons
and go through various tests
that our soul needs to learn to
expand, to understand itself,
to understand one another.
And it's important also to
realize that the earth world is
not the only school
to come back to.
So your soul can go
to many other schools,
because there are many
other galaxies, many star
systems, many planets.
This is just one
of many schools.
Probably one of
the hardest schools
to come back to, because we're
thrown here with other souls
from all different
levels of awareness.
We're thrown here
with souls come
from-- learniong basic
things, like nursery school.
Or to other souls who are very
evolved in postgraduate work.
Some souls think that
violence and hatred
is the way it
should be, and there
are others that know that
only love and compassion is
the way it should be.
So it's just
something to look at,
that you are really just a soul
having this human experience.
Now, today's show being on
healing, to me, is balance.
It's about bringing balance.
It's about bringing harmony.
It's about bringing
an awareness.
enlightenment.
So it's really bringing
an awareness, if you will.
I often say the
first step in healing
is having an awareness of
something; it's being aware.
That's a first step,
and to opening yourself
up to being aware of something.
And I like to stay
away from judgment,
because I find
judgment is fear-based,
and fear is the
opposite of what we are.
We, as soul beings, are love.
We are made from
the energy of love,
and the further you get away
from that energy of love,
the further you get away from
your natural state of being,
then you're going to
be har-- you're not
going to be happy in life.
You're going to find there's
no balance in your life.
You're going to find that
you're affected so easily
by what other people think.
You're going to start living
other people's lives instead
of your own lives,
and you're going
to be less of who you truly are.
OK?
When we take on
other people's energy
and start living
their lives, we're
not being true to ourselves.
We're not living our own lives.
So I often ask people in my
audiences how many of you
are living other
people's lives right now?
Raise your hand.
One.
God bless you for
raising your hand.
You can raise your hand.
We're all learning.
One, two, three,
four, five, six.
I think we all are.
So there.
I think in some ways
we all are or we have,
because I think for the
majority, a lot of people
have gone through their
lives really with a sense of,
if I just do this
one thing, I'll
receive more love from
my mother and my father.
If we just do this
or act a certain way,
they're going to love me more.
If I just do this
in the relationship,
they're going to love me more.
And if I just do
this for my child,
they're going to love me more.
Yeah?
I know that I entered
the priesthood
when I was 14 years of age.
To be a priest.
Can you imagine me as a priest?
I don't think so.
But I did that for
a very-- at the time
I did it, because I knew there
was a calling that I had.
I knew that I had to do
something for the humankind,
and that's really
what it was about.
Did I think I was
going to be a priest?
I didn't think so, but
something was going on there.
And then when I
left that after I
heard a voice say to me,
after a year being there,
I heard a voice
say, James, you must
find God outside
these four walls.
God is much bigger
than these four walls.
You have to go find God outside.
So I said, OK.
And that was it.
And then I went to a New
York City public high school
and had a great time, loved it.
But I found out
that, after a while
of having a little bit
of space to look back,
I realized that I
went to that school
to be a priest because I
wanted the love from my mother.
I wanted her to love me
more, and I thought, wow,
if I did that, that
she'll give me more love.
So I did that just
to please her.
So many of us live our lives
just to please other people.
Hello?
How many people do
you go out of your way
to please just so you can
try to get back their love?
People have to love you
just for who you are,
not who they want you to be.
Just for who you are.
And you can reach more people,
you can teach more people,
and you can open
up to more people
and make them be more aware by
being strong within yourself
and holding on to who you are.
You're not here by accident.
None of you are
here by accident.
We're all here for
a great cosmic plan
which our souls have worked
out before we came back
into this incarnation.
It's very, very true.
It's so funny, people
say, I got to fit in.
I got to do this to fit in.
I got to be this way to fit in.
Make more people
love me or like me.
Not true.
Every single person
here is a unique soul.
And I often say that
we're like snowflakes.
We have a unique pattern;
we have a unique description
of ourselves.
And no two people are like.
We're all unique beings,
and we are all stars.
Every single one of us.
And in order to make
that beautiful galaxy,
we have to be our unique star.
And the further you go
away from that, the further
you're in peril.
Peril.
Such a Biblical sound.
But it's really, really true.
So as we go through
the school of life,
we tend to take on
other people's energy.
We tend to take on what
they want us to live
instead of who we are.
We tend to feel, why
did they do that to me?
And become a victim.
And so I have victim
consciousness.
How could they do that to me?
Well, maybe they
didn't know any better.
Maybe they didn't
know any better,
so maybe now is your opportunity
to step back and, instead
of being in judgment
and fear-based,
step back, take
a breath, and see
the totality of the experience.
See it from a
bigger perspective.
Why did this person
manifest this behavior?
And am I subjecting
myself to this behavior?
What is it teaching my soul?
What's the reason why it's here?
Yeah.
So many people hold
on to stuff not only
from people that, well,
supposedly do them
wrong in lifetime, family
members and friends
and so forth.
And we really set a hold in
energy which is like, oh,
you shouldn't have done that.
How could you do that?
I'll never forgive you.
And it's unfortunate because,
from a spiritual point of view,
when I look at someone's
aura, their auric field,
the electromagnetic field
around every living thing,
I can see right away if
that energy is flowing
or if it's not.
If there are obstructions
in that flow.
And many, many times
the obstruction
will be an emotional charge.
An emotional charge which
they're holding onto
based upon what somebody
else might have done to them
or how could they have
done that to them,
should they have
done that to them.
So in other words, you're
not being in balance.
You're throwing off that
balance of the energy flow.
Everything flows.
Energy flows, and if you're
going to hold onto something,
emotion let's say,
an emotional charge
based on what someone
else did to you or someone
didn't do to you or even perhaps
some kind of a loss, a divorce,
or even someone who
passed over, sometimes
we hold onto these things.
And they upset us because
the energy can't flow.
It dams us up.
It dams us up, and that'll
affect every single choice
we have in our lives.
We'll be colored.
We'll be looking at the world
from different perspectives
of being half than we are.
Does that make sense to you?
Yeah.
So I would like to work
today with the healing,
and the healing to me is
bringing through that balance,
that awareness, that we are
perfect in our beingness.
And we are perfect,
warts and all.
And all the experiences
we have on this earth
are really opportunities
for our growth.
They really are.
And healing energy
is all around us.
The healing energy is
really in the chairs
we're sitting in and in
the walls and the cloths.
It all has energy.
And the trees and the
dirt outside, the grass.
It's all energy, and
part of, for you,
is to realize that that energy
is always available for you
to use.
Always.
Everything is God.
God is a pure, loving energy.
I like to say that God is not
the bearded God that we grew up
with, many of us, in
a religious context.
But also, I feel it's an energy.
I call God the Omnipresent
Nurturing Energy.
O-N-E. ONE.
Omnipresent Nurturing Energy.
And we're all one.
We're all connected as one.
Two biggest illusions we have
in this world is, number one,
that there's death.
There is no such thing as death.
It's an illusion.
You can't kill energy;
it just changes form.
And the second is that we're
separate from one another.
We're not separate; we're
connected to one another.
We're never separate.
And when you pass
out of this dimension
into the spiritual dimensions,
you'll see, oh my gosh,
we are all connected.
We're connected
with our thoughts.
When we think of somebody else.
The actions that we
do to somebody else.
How do we think about ourselves?
Yeah?
So I'd like to work today with
bringing back that remembrance
that you have deep
within your soul
that you are a beautiful
being of light.
And bring back that
balance, that harmony,
and that oneness that you are,
which sometimes, we get so
caught up in the head
about things that
have happened or didn't
happen or people that left us
and where are we that
we forget the heart.
And the heart is the seat
of the healing space.
It's in here, the heart,
that we can truly heal,
for this is where the
energy is, the soul energy.
So we're going to
work with that today.
Yeah?
I like to use the green light.
The green light, for me, is
the light, the frequency,
of the heart energy that
brings about the balance, that
brings about harmony
and peace and oneness.
It's that green light.
So we're going to
use that today.
So before I bring
you into a meditation
and to this healing
vibration-- which
I think you're all here because
you're meant to be here.
Everybody's watching
at this moment
because they're meant to
be watching at this moment.
I don't necessarily
believe in accidents.
I believe in divine timing.
Things are meant
to be, and I think
that's really what it's about.
What it's about.
So before we begin,
would anybody
have any questions
about healing or today
or any general questions
you'd like to ask?
Anything at all?
Yes?
>>AUDIENCE: How does the
green light promote healing?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Ah.
The green light
promotes healing.
Well, we use the color
green, for me personally,
because the frequency of
the green-- every color
has a certain
frequency, if you will.
Or a voice to it or an
energy that's at a certain,
let's say, musical note
or resonance, if you will.
And for me, green is part
of the heart energy, which
is where the healing
energy is stored.
So that's why I use
the green light.
And it's really, if you
want, thoughts are things.
Thoughts are things.
So if you open yourself up to
the intention of your thoughts
and be there-- the first psychic
I ever went to see said to me,
if you can hold a thought for
three seconds, it's yours.
Because thoughts are things.
Thoughts are real.
And so if we hold the
thought with that intention,
that gives it the
energy, if you will,
to move ahead and come into
that awareness of healing
and bring ourselves to a state
of mind to receive the healing
and realize we're so much
more than we think we are.
Is that good?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Over here.
This lady right back here.
>>AUDIENCE: Hey.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So who
you-- what do you
want with healing
today as far as-- what
do you think about that
when I say "healing" to you?
>>AUDIENCE: That's a
good question, James.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know.
I'm full of them.
Yeah, I just felt
like I had to ask you.
What do you want
healing with or when
you think of healing,
what do you thing?
>>AUDIENCE: A lot
of times I feel--
feel that healing-- the opposite
of healing is resistance.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
>>AUDIENCE: And I see people who
are resistant a lot of times,
and I also see that I can
be projecting that also.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
>>AUDIENCE: So maybe
just the healing
of my own resistance
of who I am.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Fabulous.
Fabulous.
So it's really-- that's
a great, great point.
What's your name?
>>AUDIENCE: My name's Lori.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you, Lori.
Thank you for pointing that out.
It's really a good one.
It's a real good one
because so many people think
about other people, and I
want to heal that person.
I want to do that person.
I want this
situation in my life.
Or that.
And instead of--
And it's really hard sometimes
to go and heal that person,
per se, or bring them
into balance or awareness.
But if we start
within ourselves,
and we worry first
about-- not worry,
but take awareness of
the microcosm that we are
and bring that into oneness
and that into healing,
that will definitely affect
those in the macrocosm.
And it's also true with the
world's conditions right now.
People are often
emailing me saying,
how can I help the world?
I'm upset with what's going
on in the world right now.
Well, you can't go over,
necessarily, and fight,
but you certainly can
work within yourself
and have a healing here
and bringing a balance
to your own life.
And in turn, there's what's
called the rippling effect.
And the rippling
effect really works.
Where you're just going
on here, and this happens,
this awareness happens,
and eventually it
will lead to someone else.
It'll be connect to somebody
else and somebody else.
And it really does work.
I know that it works because
I'm standing proof of that.
30 years ago, I went out
and talked to dead people
and they thought I was crazy.
Because you wait.
You wait, because it'll
get to someone eventually.
The rippling effect will
happen, and it has happened.
And now we wouldn't have
this television show.
There wouldn't be a Gaiam TV.
There wouldn't be
spiritual books and movies
without this work out there.
It's now mainstream.
So, I do believe that if we
start working within ourselves,
we can really affect
those in the greater need.
>>AUDIENCE: Absolutely.
Thank you so much.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you very much.
So I want to do a
little meditation now
for you, or a mind journey,
if we can call it that.
And I think it's a wonderful
opportunity for you all
to have this awareness and
take this home with you.
Yeah?
Take that home with you.
OK.
I think we need to
start with a breath.
So all those people that are
watching us at home, just
close your eyes.
And those who are in the studio,
if you just want to close eyes.
And let's just take
a refreshing breath.
And I find when taking the
breath, if you breathe in
through your nose and then
hold that and then let it out
through your mouth, it's
really, really good.
And as you do that
with the breathing,
I just want you to give
that breathing a little bit
of a label on it, which
is when you breathe in,
imagine that you're
breathing in new energy.
You're bringing in new life.
You're bringing
in the God source,
or your connection
to God source.
You're bringing in that sense
of oneness, your connection
to oneness.
And we're going to envision
that as a beautiful, beautiful
light.
And this could be a
golden light coming
through the top of the head.
And just bringing yourself
to that beautiful space
of the heart in your
neutrality of being.
So together we're
going to inhale
this beautiful, golden light
through the top of the head.
And inhale.
And hold it.
Two, three, four, and exhale.
Let it go out of the mouth where
that energy really falls off
to Mother Earth, and Mother
Earth recycles that to love.
So again, imagine a beautiful
beam of light, a divine light,
coming within, illuminating
the inside of your being.
And as you exhale, let go of
all the old ways of thinking,
old conditions, negative
thinking, other people's
energy in your space.
So together let's inhale.
And hold it two, three,
four, and exhale.
And let it go.
Let it go.
And just connecting
to your divine light.
And inhale.
And holding it.
Two, three, four, and exhale.
And just let it be.
Just let it be.
Good.
And just keeping the rhythm of
the breath remaining the same.
I just want you to pay
attention to your heartbeat.
The beating of the heart.
Like the ebb and
flow of the oceans.
In and out.
We'll bring more light
to that beautiful heart
area, that green
light of the heart,
and feel your divine love.
Your soul's light is
tucked beautifully
behind your heart center.
Just feel that beautiful light
of your soul, of your heart.
Good.
Sometimes just giving
ourselves permission to feel,
it's giving ourselves permission
to sit in this space, to be.
We worry so much about the past.
The past has already happened.
Sometimes worry
about the future.
The future is yet to be,
so don't waste the energy.
Just live in this moment now.
This true moment where
there is no fear.
You're living in the present.
So again, inhale.
And exhale.
Good.
And as you sit in this space
of your beautiful divine light,
just feel now, standing
right behind you,
there may be a guide, a
teacher, a healing guide.
And just sending out
a thought to them.
Dear healing guide of
light, we ask you now
to step into our
space behind us.
Dear healing guide of light,
you have our permission just
to step in this space
behind us, illuminate us
as you touch our shoulders
and we feel your energy.
We feel this beautiful
balance, this oneness,
this connectedness to light.
And just feel that.
Acknowledge that.
Spirit are always around us,
but are we there to listen?
Can we open up our minds
just a little bit to receive?
So as you feel this beautiful
energy of your healing guide,
just be mindful of
what that feels like.
And perhaps, just
perhaps, they'll
give you a sign, a signal, a
feeling, an emotion, something
where you can recognize
your healing guide.
And let that be.
And connect with
them, and thank them.
Oh, how beautiful.
Take a deep breath,
and feel their energy.
And exhale.
Good.
And now, in your mind's
eye, in your imagination,
your guide will take you
to a beautiful garden.
And just see, feel,
experience as best as you can,
whether you can
see it or feel it
or just imagine
something like it.
A lovely garden.
Green, green meadows of
grass, and all different types
of flowers.
Roses and daffodils and lilacs.
And trees of all
different types.
Sycamores and oak trees,
ficus trees, redwood trees.
Whatever's right for you.
Whatever is in harmony with your
beingness, with your spirit.
Good.
And breathe that in.
And exhale.
And as you stand there
with your healing guide,
look all around you at
the spiritual landscape.
Be mindful of every
flower, every leaf
on every tree, the grass
underneath your feet.
Be mindful how light it feels.
Perhaps in the distance
you hear children playing
and the animals barking
at their new reunited
loved ones crossing over.
And just feel the
oneness of all energy.
And as you do that,
your guide says to you,
we're going to go to
a very special place.
We're going to go now to
the Healing Temple of Light.
So dear friends, your
angel, your healing angel,
takes you by the hand.
And before you know
it, you're standing
in front of this
lovely, lovely building.
This marble building mixed
with the mother of pearl.
It's an open space
with just, perhaps,
an awareness that there are
walls, but there really aren't.
You can see right through them.
And dear friends,
they have set up
a beautiful space inside
this Healing Temple of Light
just for you.
The crowd has been
waiting for you.
Your loved ones in
spirit have been there,
and your loved ones
living upon the earth.
They've also been
waiting for this moment,
for their higher self is in
this spirit at all times.
So your guide leads you
to this lovely chair
in the middle of
this room, and there
are bleachers all around you.
Beautiful seats of
beings of light.
And as you sit in this
red velvet gold chair,
just sitting there, you
become aware as you look down
at your clothing you no longer
are wearing earth clothes.
You have your
spiritual robes on.
Look and see and feel what
colors those robes are.
Become mindful of the
texture of the robes.
And why exactly are you wearing
those particular colors?
Those particular robes?
And just know the oneness
that has made this possible.
And as your guide
backs up behind you,
you look around the
crowd in this room.
They've all come for your
love and to love you.
And as you look around the
room, you see their faces,
and there are some you may not
have seen for many, many years
from this lifetime.
Many of those you
might have forgotten.
Many are still in the
physical vibration,
but you haven't thought
of them for a long time,
and there are some there
that have passed over
to the world of the
spirit full time,
kind of standing there as
well or sitting there as well.
As you sit in that chair, one by
one, someone comes before you,
and don't try to control who
it is, just let them present
themselves.
Whether they still have a
living body, that's fine.
The physical earth or in the
spirit, it doesn't matter.
Let them present themselves
one at a time before you,
for they have come now
to receive your healing.
To receive a thought, a word,
about your love for them.
Perhaps an apology.
Perhaps an understanding
you now have.
Perhaps now is the
opportunity you can send them
that love that you've held back.
That forgiveness
you've held back.
Just one at a time let them
receive, and be mindful
as you give out that apology,
as you give out that love.
Be aware of how
their colors change,
the person in front
of you changes
by just hearing your
thought of how you truly
feel from your heart.
And the next person.
Become mindful as you
send out this healing
to those beings who you might
have thought did you wrong, who
you might have thought
were not there for you,
who you might have thought could
have done something better,
who you might have thought
held something back.
Become aware what
it's like now to look
at it from the spiritual point
of view, to take the high road,
to take the oneness.
We're all connected.
Maybe they didn't know better.
Maybe life was tough for them.
So one at a time, let
them pass before you
and receive your
healing for them.
Receive the balance,
receive the love,
the harmony, the connectedness.
Be mindful how your
mind, your thoughts,
have gotten in the way
of that healing energy.
Things that you projected,
things that you thought were
real really weren't.
Just the illusions, just the
limitations of your mind.
They understand that.
Good.
And notice as you heal
each one, as they walk away
and form a big
circle behind you,
notice how much
lighter they are.
How much brighter they
are in their mind,
their spirit, their energy.
And one by one, and
of course, now we
have those who passed over
to the world of the spirit.
Mothers and fathers,
one at a time
wanting to share
healing energy with you.
A healing word, a healing
thought, an appreciation.
Now is your chance to send
it back, to honor them,
acknowledge them.
They say, we're not dead.
No one's dead.
There is no death.
You live in that physical,
three dimensional world thinking
that's it.
Don't you understand?
That's the illusionary world.
We're in the higher life.
We're home.
You're just visiting.
Be kind to yourself.
Love yourself.
And soon we find those loved
ones, our friends, who we've
just sent beautiful healing
to are encircling us all.
They put out their hands,
extend their hands,
and they send love
from their heart to us.
And they want you
to feel their love,
feel their healing for you,
feel their forgiveness,
feel their sorrow.
And as you feel the energy of
their healing rays of light,
this beautiful green
light, within that light
is illuminacity and is
awareness of yourself.
And you begin to see
yourself as you truly are.
Not what you think you are,
but what you truly are.
And just feel the
connectedness of oneness
with all of your
loved ones that you
have healed and have healed you.
And take a deep
breath, coming back
into the awareness of the body.
Come back into the
awareness of the feet.
And inhale.
And exhale.
Become aware of your
feet and your legs.
Back into the body.
And another time.
Coming back into the body.
And inhale.
And exhale.
Feel the chairs and your back,
your shoulders, your arms,
your chest, your
neck, your head.
One more time, fully back in.
And inhale.
And exhale.
And open up your
eyes and be as one.
Now put your arms up
and wiggle your fingers.
Get back with the body.
You all at home?
I hope you're back.
Hear my voice.
Back, back, back.
OK.
Was that nice?
Feels nice, doesn't it.
Yeah.
Anybody have some experiences
you couldn't understand?
Something happened that
you-- you had a lot.
You were going.
You were there.
Lots of people around you.
You felt it.
Yeah.
You want to share
with us what you-- no.
It was deep.
Anybody want to
share what they got?
I know it was a very personal
experience for a lot of you.
Sometimes it goes to
levels which you never
expect, deep in your core.
And many times this
gives us space for us
to have that healing energy.
It gives us space.
Instead of giving so much energy
to negativity and limitedness
and judgment, we get a space for
understanding and compassion.
And that sometimes we need.
I find that sometimes
people-- I'm
going to cry so I know
I'm feeling it, too.
I know that sometimes it's so
much easier for us to judge.
It's so much easier
as a human being.
You know, getting out of
the human box, it's tough.
This human world's
tough, because we think--
we're in the world of illusion,
and we think this is it.
The limitations, this is it.
We're so much more than that.
And so when we have that--
the lid of that box opens up,
and we see that we're so
much more than that, oh
my gosh, that behavior I had,
how could I have done that?
Why could I have done that?
How could I behave like that?
Why did I blame that person?
Whatever it was.
It's easy to do that
because we're here
in this limited
three-dimensional world, and
we try to be in control.
I got to control this is.
The honest truth is
we have no control.
Sorry.
We have no control,
but we can control
what we do with
the reaction as far
as how we react to other people.
How do we react when someone
treats us a certain way.
I've often said in this
show and everywhere I
teach that my belief
is how people treat
you is their karma; how
you respond and react
is your karma.
So it's all energy.
It's what you do
with the energy.
So is that good?
OK.
All right.
Is there somebody here in
the room who lost a son?
A boy that passed over or a
friend of a son that passed?
No?
No one knows about that.
And I know the name
would be Thomas or Tommy.
There would be a Tom connection.
You don't know that?
Nobody?
I just got to say that to you.
Now, I'm going to
talk about somebody
who either works at a school,
volunteers at a school,
has been to a school this week.
Been some kind of a schooling.
Does it make sense to somebody?
Yes?
Would you have been
to a school this week
or work at a school or
volunteer at a school?
>>AUDIENCE: Not this week.
>>VAN PRAAGH: What?
Do you volunteer at a
school or go to a school?
>>AUDIENCE: I worked
at the Alaya Preschool.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Would you
mind standing, please?
OK.
And what is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Mitra.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Mitra.
Hello, Mitra.
>>AUDIENCE: Hello.
>>VAN PRAAGH: How
are you, my love?
>>AUDIENCE: I'm goodly
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, good, lovely.
Mitra, so would you
volunteer at a school?
>>AUDIENCE: I worked at
a Buddhist preschool.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You worked
at a Buddhist preschool?
Priest school?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Right.
Would you know if
there's somebody--
so you never meet parents
of people, do you?
>>AUDIENCE: Occasionally.
But not so much.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Would
you know someone
by the name of Thomas
who passed over?
Thomas or Tommy who'd have
some connection to a school?
>>AUDIENCE: Possibly.
Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
So I need to bring
this-- and I'm not sure
if it's the early 20s.
>>AUDIENCE: True.
True.
>>VAN PRAAGH: But I thought 24.
20s.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Understand that?
Yes?
Great.
So I know that you would--
he comes in close to me
and he said you would
know his mother.
It would be a connection
with his mother.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great.
Lovely.
Good.
So would you mind being
the medium for him?
>>AUDIENCE: No, I would not.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
God bless you.
And I don't know if he was--
yes, thank you very much.
He's a very, very bright boy.
A very smart and bright boy, and
he comes in here and he said,
please help my
mother and dad out.
You, please, have to.
Especially my mother, because
she needs to know I'm OK.
I know the name would
be Tom or Thomas would
be the formal name,
and I need to go there.
I know I have several roads
before me, this young man,
and I'm not sure
which road to pick.
OK?
I know that the mother
feels guilty for some reason
of his passing, and I don't know
if she was away from him when
he passed away, but I think
that might have been it.
Might have been away from
him when he passed over.
So I got to go with that.
Go on, go on, go on.
I understand that.
Would you know-- and
your name again is?
>>AUDIENCE: Mitra.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Mitra.
So Mitra, would you know
about the phone ringing?
Your phone ringing sometimes?
Your cell phone,
and there's no one
on the other end or
there's no answer to it
or something about
electronically something
has happened with a
cellphone around you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So this man,
Thomas, wants me to tell you
it's been him.
He's trying to get
your attention.
Now, I know that there would
be a room in your house,
where you live or
where you stay,
where there are definitely
a lot of books in that room.
>>AUDIENCE: That's correct.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And I know it's like an
office or a computer's there.
This is the place there.
Now, I know there would be some
time for meditation for you.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I know this boy has
come to your
meditation, and I know
this boy would've been
around you when you've
been around those
books recently.
OK?
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Now,
I know if I go
to the second
shelf of the books,
there could be some books to
do with numbers or mathematics
or something about putting
pieces of something
together mathematically
or with formulaic way.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that.
Good.
>>AUDIENCE: Very clear.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because as
part of you, of your being,
which is engineeric in a way--
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, so true.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So true.
And because as this
young man comes to me,
he brings me your
mind and he said,
I'm telling her I'm with her.
I'm telling her
that I'm with her.
Please bring this to my mother.
They said to me I had to bring
her proof so he's bringing you
proof.
So I know that there would be--
And if you look at that
second or third bookshelf,
there'd definitely be
some science books,
there'd definitely be some
calculus books or some kind
of mechanical engineering
type of books.
Correct?
>>AUDIENCE: Correct.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And I know that you'd be a
person of numbers around you.
Very much so.
There's measures to that.
That formula goes with that.
That sort of thing.
You understand?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great.
I know that you would have
also had been with this lady
in passing, his mother.
Some kind of in passing or
you know something about her.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Now, I'd also be
very, very aware as he gives me
a sense that there could
be a book that you have,
a program, a book,
and there could
be these people at the school.
OK?
And there might be pictures
of people at the school,
of students that have
passed-- students
that are there that have
passed through the school.
Would you know about that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great.
And would you know
if that program--
that manual-- is in a spiral?
Comes to me in a
spiral kind of--
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It is.
Thank you very much.
So I know that I'm seeing that.
And I'm very, very aware
that his photograph
would be in there.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that.
And I go toward-- this man
makes me go toward the end
part of the book or three
quarters through that program.
I must tell you that his
passing is very quick
and it's very fast.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I don't
feel any lingering.
I don't feel pain with him.
I'm gone.
1, 2, 3.
>>AUDIENCE: He's gone.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
I will tell you, though,
he's a very soulful boy.
He's a very soulful
boy, and he's
received a lot of the prayers.
A lot of the prayers.
Now, can I be also--
the healing that you
did in that meditation,
he was right with you.
>>AUDIENCE: He was.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Did
you see him, please?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
That's just confirmation.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great.
Great, great, great.
And please bring that
healing to his mother.
The family needs it.
>>AUDIENCE: I will.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know
that he has a sister,
so I want you to bring
it to his sister as well.
You're aware of that.
Thank you very much.
I know also, as I
work with you here,
I have a lady who
comes in who is a nun.
Who's a nun, and very much
a religious nun feeling.
Now, when I see that
as a guide with you,
I see that you're a very
compassionate person.
And I think that you've done
a really, really good job
balancing the left
and right brains.
>>AUDIENCE: I work on it.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, I love it.
I think you're doing a
really, really good job.
Really, really good job.
And your dad has
also passed over?
No?
>>AUDIENCE: I don't know.
>>VAN PRAAGH: No?
I have a man who was
recognized as a father to me
so I got to tell you that.
And I see horses
around him, and I
got to tell you there's
an area growing up
with horses and countryside.
>>AUDIENCE: True.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that?
That's just a--
>>AUDIENCE: I do.
So true.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Just a validation.
Don't know if you were
adopted or what happened, or--
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Have you
lost touch with him?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
My father was Holocaust.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Ah, it
was the Holocaust.
Oh, God bless you.
Wow.
Well, he comes in
very, very strongly.
I lost 50 members of my
family in the Holocaust,
so I can relate to that.
It's interesting that that's
the reference that comes in.
So I know this man
shows me horses.
I know this man has a farm.
I know this man has a
countryside of life.
I know there's a lot
of women over there
on that side of the family.
There'd be, like, I
don't know, about eight?
Eight women over there
on the other side.
So I don't know if
they are aunts of his,
but there's a whole
bunch of them.
>>AUDIENCE: That's wonderful.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK?
And I know that this man, your
father, is very proud of you
and wants you to live
your life as if-- what?
The moment's now.
Don't live in the past.
Don't live in the future.
Live now.
That's very good advice.
In your room, that room
that we're talking about,
are there photographs on
the wall of any people
that have passed over?
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: No.
Are there any photos
of people on the wall?
Or where is it?
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, yes, there are.
Yes, yes, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Because I'm being
shown that my mind.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I know that I want
to bring healing
to these people.
Some of those
people need healing,
and would you please keep
them in your prayers.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I think you're
a very prayerful person.
I think you have--
I don't know if you
have Beatitudes on your wall?
That prayer Beatitudes?
You do, don't you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I see it.
Beatitudes.
Right there on the wall.
And it's right there,
and I love that for you.
This nun comes in
here, not a relative
of yours necessarily, but
definitely a spiritual family
of yours.
I got to say that to you.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I think you're
a great one in compassion,
and I think you could
teach compassion.
I really, really do.
I think you're great with that.
I also feel there's
a lost brother.
Or a brother that's
gone somewhere from you.
I don't know what means, if
you've havne't spoken to him
in a while, but a lost brother.
They say a lost brother.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And your dad
wants me to mention that to you.
And I don't know if you've
just lead different lives,
completely different lives,
that you've lost contact
with each other, but your
father's trying to help you--
and I don't think you know
your father very well?
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
But I know that he
knows you very well,
and I know that I want to-- OK.
I want to be with
you with gardening.
The gardening.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So I know
that you love the gardens,
and I know that you've
created a memorial
garden for your father.
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And he wants
to thank you for that.
And I love lilies; I love
tulips; I love roses.
I love all that.
Do you understand?
>>AUDIENCE: I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You know, you
are very gifted with nurturing,
that earth energy.
Very, very gifted that way.
Oh, she also has a
vegetable garden?
Oh, he said you have a
vegetable garden, too,
in the right season.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He
said that to me.
He said your-- OK.
He said your tomatoes
are very big this year.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
And prolific.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And prolific.
Yeah, he's saying that to me.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
Prolific.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Very good.
Very good.
So keep on doing what
you do, and continue
with that teaching.
And would you please help
that Thomas family, please?
For him.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, I will.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So blessings
to you and lots of love.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: God bless you.
OK.
Interesting work, isn't it?
Interesting work.
So a lady comes into my
mind, and as this lady comes
to my mind, she's talking
about her daughter being
in the audience here,
and I know that I
want to talk about scissors.
So I know I want to
talk about scissors.
And I'm not sure if my
daughter is sitting here
in this room having my--
who owns my scissors now.
This lady is making me feel
something about the scissors
or shears, and I got
to talk about that.
I am also talking
about my sewing stuff.
And she's talking
to me about that,
and I don't know where I am.
Does it make sense
to anybody here?
It makes sense to you?
Yes?
And what is your name, lovely?
>>AUDIENCE: Carol.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Carol.
Hi, Carol.
So you know about-- go on.
She's never come through before.
She said this is brand new for
her so please bear with her,
OK?
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She's been
trying really, really hard
to come through to you and
other members of the family.
I've got to say that.
And you would know about having
her scissors or her shears?
Yes?
>>AUDIENCE: I have
several of her scissors.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great.
And would she have been
into the sewing situation?
This lady?
>>AUDIENCE: She gave
me her sewing machine.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She gave
you a sewing machine.
And this is your
mother or stepmother?
>>AUDIENCE: Stepmother.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Stepmother, great.
So to me it like feels
like a mother here.
So I know she comes with that--
got you, got you, got you.
Slow down.
She's very, very
excited to speak to you.
You have my scissors, and
you recently looked at them.
You were recently looking
at my scissors, correct?
>>AUDIENCE: Correct.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And I know there's this
gentleman coming in
over here, like a
father coming in.
So I got to tell you a
father's over here in a second.
He'll be just with you.
He said he was just with
you in the meditation,
and he said he'll
come in just a second,
but this lady's got
to come through.
This stepmother's got
to come through here.
So they must have been
together obviously.
Duh.
>>AUDIENCE: They are.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And I like her.
I like her a lot, this lady.
I just want to give more
of my space and my mind.
And as she comes in, I
like to do my sewing.
She's all about the sewing,
she's all about crafts,
and she's all about
that sort of thing.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Now,
do you know about--
and this is a weird one.
It's a weird one, but I got
to go with what I'm hearing.
Remember those paper dolls?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Cutting
the paper dolls?
I don't know why she's
giving me that in my mind,
but she's giving me a memory
of making paper dolls.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
My sister and I did that
when we were a lot younger.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know that
the kids have grown up,
but there's still a
little one somewhere.
I'm not sure if that's
a great grandchild.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And would this great grandchild
be around seven years of age
or five years of age?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Perfect.
Would you please pass on
the tradition of the dolls?
The cutting paper dolls?
Isn't that strange?
>>AUDIENCE: It is strange.
>>VAN PRAAGH: But they
want you to do that.
And it's very interesting.
So this mother figure is coming
and telling me about that.
I'm also getting, as your
dad comes closer, he has--
you have your mother's--
stepmother's ring.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
Her wedding ring.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
You look at that every
once in a while, don't you?
Right.
And do you have a son, please?
>>AUDIENCE: I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You worry
too much about him.
Dad says you worry way
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So remember,
when you're sending out energy,
you don't want to
send out worry,
because it'll bring
the energy down.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So when
we send out worry,
when we send out
negativity, when we send out
limited thoughts, we bring
the energy down to fear.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
you don't want that,
because you don't want dis-ease.
Yeah?
>>AUDIENCE: Correct.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
So you want to bring up to the
love and high level of energy,
yeah?
>>AUDIENCE: Right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So your dad is
telling me he's with your boy.
He's helping the son out.
>>AUDIENCE: Good.
>>VAN PRAAGH: There's
emotional problems going on
back and forth
with him, and he's
got to find something
else about himself.
You understand?
>>AUDIENCE: I understand.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And-- hold on, hold on.
You have a husband also.
>>AUDIENCE: He's passed.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know.
I know.
That's my specialty.
May I bring him through for you?
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Sure.
What is his same?
>>AUDIENCE: Robert.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Robert.
Good.
Robert's been
hanging out all day.
>>AUDIENCE: Ah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Now I just want to bring him
through and let him come in.
So I know that he's telling
me-- acknowledging him.
He's thanking them.
He's thanking the parents.
You have a lot of aunts and
uncles there, too, by the way.
And there are some
people that didn't
really were blood people,
but belonged to that family.
I just got to say.
It's like one big happy--
This guy that comes
through, Robert, I
want to tell you that there's
a lot of animals he's around.
I just want to tell you
there's dogs over there.
>>AUDIENCE: He was a farmer.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And he has
animals, but there's dogs.
Like, three dogs.
>>AUDIENCE: Dogs.
Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Three
dogs, specifically.
Three dogs.
And as I want to say to him--
he's talking about the son.
Now, I don't know
if that's a son
that he had with somebody
else or that's your son.
It's your son.
>>AUDIENCE: We had a son, yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
The same one that
you worry about.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
So stop worrying about him.
>>AUDIENCE: His
name is Robert, too.
>>VAN PRAAGH: His
So I know that I'm
taking care of him.
I know your husband's
I know that I feel--
I got to tell you
that I feel when this man
left you a long time ago.
It feels like a bit ago.
I feel as if there
was still a lot
of unfinished business
between you and him.
OK?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know that
I want to say I'm sorry to you,
and I know that he did
things that I'm not
very proud of doing.
You understand that?
And I know I did
not honor you like I
should have as a husband.
And this is what he's
just saying to you.
He has to get this off his chest
for this healing to happen.
And he's saying,
please forgive me.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Please forgive him, sweetheart.
>>AUDIENCE: I forgive you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
She forgives you.
Because I don't
think he knew better.
I don't think he knew better.
I think there was a
sense of not being
aware of who he was, and
unfortunately acted out
certain ways and did things
that were not appropriate.
And he's sorry.
He misses you
cooking food for him.
When you first got married, and
you cooked him perfect meals.
You used to do perfect
things for him,
and he's telling me about
go back to those memories.
OK?
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I like
spaghetti and meatballs.
I don't know why, but I
like spaghetti and meatballs
when I'm younger.
I'm going to leave you with
those-- that information.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you very much.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK?
God bless you.
May I come to you, please?
Would you mind standing?
And your name is?
>>AUDIENCE: My name is Bonnie.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Bonnie.
And there's a gentleman
that passed over
you want to contact?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
My friend Kip.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your friend Kip.
Right.
Because I know there's
a man, but there's also
a lady coming in next to
you on this side of you.
And I feel more like a
grandmotherly feeling.
I get-- or I feel like it's
almost like an older woman who
helped at one time in life.
And I feel she's
older in life, and I
think you helped her one time.
So I don't know if it's a
relationship with your family
or with you, but I know you
did a nicety for this lady
at one time.
And I think she's a
friend of your mother's.
>>AUDIENCE: It
could be my grandma.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Is
this your mother?
Ah.
>>AUDIENCE: I never
met her before
but-- did she have white hair?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Do you
have her blanket?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, you do.
Would you mind standing up?
You both can stand
up, sweetheart.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So I know
that this lady is here.
And she's talking
about her, and she
talks about she has others, too.
Are there two other
kids you have?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
Two other girls.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Two other girls.
Right.
So there are three altogether?
Because she tells about the two
other kids, she's telling me.
I also know your father would
be in the spirit world as well,
correct?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because
I get the gentleman
that she comes here with.
And he stands on your left
side and she's on right side.
Did you have crocheted
blankets somewhere?
Or someone that made a blanket?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
whose blanket is that?
>>AUDIENCE: Pam.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Pam.
OK.
Who's Pam?
>>AUDIENCE: Pam would
be my sister-in-law.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your
sister-in-law.
>>AUDIENCE: Who passed.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's
whose blanket you have?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And did you think
of her recently?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And did you want to
thank her recently?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because she
said you thanked me recently.
You came through to
say thank you to me.
I think that this
lady, Pam-- and I'll
get to-- your mother's
right here, too.
And your father's over here.
But I want to say, Pam,
you helped her a lot.
Now, I don't know why, but
it's when you helped her.
So was she in a hospital
before she passes over, please?
>>AUDIENCE: She was.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She
was, wasn't she?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because I get
this lady coming in to me
as a hospital feeling.
I feel very ill.
I feel the energy's
being drawn out of me.
I'm not sure it's a
cancerous condition,
but I feel it could have been.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I
feel like we tried
all different types of
methods to get me better,
and different types of
things, but I didn't make it.
OK?
I also feel there might
be two kids involved here
so she might have had some kids.
>>AUDIENCE: She did
have some children.
Boys.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Two kids?
Yep.
And would you let
them know I'm fine?
OK.
But you wants to thank you
for your help with her.
Now, even if it was on the
telephone, you helped her.
You listened.
Does that make sense to you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You helped her.
You listened to her, didn't you?
Because you were her voice.
You heard her voice,
and you listened.
And I want to
thank you for that.
I got to tell you
that, all right?
And your mother's
very proud of you,
and your mother is also coming
through apologizing to you.
So I don't know why she's
coming to apologize to you,
but she has to say I'm sorry.
>>AUDIENCE: This is
probably my birth mother.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Well, she's really
apologizing to you
that she wasn't there for you.
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know that
there are photographs of me
that you don't know who I am.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I feel that
this lady was not everything
that she could be for you.
>>AUDIENCE: No.
But I forgive her.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah, yeah.
But I'm getting from
her point of view.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Her point of view.
I feel as if she feels she
couldn't do enough for you when
she was younger, and she
wished she could've been,
but she wasn't.
And you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
I want to jump into the
father saying he loves you.
Your dad's saying he
loves you very much.
When you hear him whistle,
his specific type of whistle.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That
you'll know it's him.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Make sense?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Perfect.
That's what he wants
to come through with.
I want to come through
also with someone
over here that you
went to school with.
Now, would that be this person
Kip you went to school with?
Your friend that passed away?
This guy that passed?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You can
stay standing, mom,
because I'm going
back and forth here.
>>AUDIENCE: We went
to school together.
Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You went
to school together.
Great.
Because I know there'd be
a connection with a school
as I connect with this person.
And I want to talk about
something also about career.
Or we're talking to
each other about what
jobs to do, what
career we're going to,
what jobs we're
going to go into.
Does that make sense to you?
OK.
And you have this--
it's a man, correct?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Do you
have his voice on tape
or do you have something
that-- his voice of his?
>>AUDIENCE: I used to listen
to his cell phone voicemail.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
He said you still have my voice.
You listen to my voice, and
it's still very real for you.
And I know that there was
more to it than this friends,
that there's a little
bit more to this.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I feel it could
have been a romantic connection.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that?
I also think that there might
have been a connection as far
as partnering
together or getting
married or something like that.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Absolutely.
Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Absolutely.
Thank you.
Because I know when
he comes in here,
there's a sense of a wedding or
a sense of connection with you.
OK?
And I feel this-- shortly
before that something happens,
and he's gone.
So I got to tell you that.
>>AUDIENCE: It was very sudden.
Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: A fast
passing, wasn't it?
>>AUDIENCE: Drug overdose.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Don't
tell me; I'll tell you.
>>AUDIENCE: I'm sorry.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
I got to tell you this.
Tattoos.
So he's talking to
me about tattoos.
So I know I got to
talk about a tattoo.
I think he had tattoos,
and I think you either
want to get a tattoo
with his name on it
or something about a tattoo.
>>AUDIENCE: I have
one on my hand.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
have one on your hand.
With his name on it?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Perfect.
Perfect.
So that's what
he's talking about.
Great.
Got that.
Go on.
He's right with
you all the time.
So you're still a part-- what?
Got it.
So in the back of
your head, when
you feel a little headache
coming on, that's him.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I got you, Kip.
So when you-- when
we talked about you
bringing a guide next to
you, behind you, he came in.
Do you see him?
>>AUDIENCE: I feel him.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great.
Perfect.
And I know that he's so funny.
He's so gross, in his own way.
Like, toenails and the
whole gross toenail thing.
I don't why he's talking about
gross toenails, but he is.
He's kind of like funny,
goofy kind of gross,
you know what I mean?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Like he'll say
things that no one's thinking--
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Just to get,
like, a rise out of people.
He comes in with that
energy like, ooh.
This sort of thing, OK?
So I got to say that.
I don't feel with this
gentleman-- I like I'm a lot.
I like him a lot.
Who was the DJ?
>>AUDIENCE: My friend Mandy.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Somebody DJ'd.
And he's around all
the time the DJ person.
He's around the DJ person.
>>AUDIENCE: Mandy.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Mandy.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know
that that's a woman, then?
OK.
I know the she's
just-- I don't know
if she goes from job to job
to job or gig to gig to gig,
but he's been
helping her at gigs
because she's been low lately.
And he's telling me that.
And would you let
her know he's OK?
That he's fine?
And I don't want you
crying at my photo anymore.
I don't want you crying at
my photo anymore, he said.
You know, I'm
going with this man
I feel as if he's so damn
sure of himself sometimes.
He's so stubborn.
It's like, don't
you have a heart?
Because I want to say
he's just like go, go, go,
and he doesn't listen
to your feelings.
He doesn't listen emotionally.
I don't think he had a
father when he was younger.
I don't think his father
was present for him.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because I
know as he lives his life
and he manifests
things in his life,
that he had that
absence of a father.
He had the absence of
really receiving love
from that male figure
that he looked up to,
and he really needed that.
I know that this boy is in pain.
And I know, mom, that you
tried helping him in some ways.
I know you did, because
he's thanking you so much.
He's thanking you so much.
And I know you must have
given him money sometimes.
I know you must have
given him money.
You know that, and he's
thanking you for that.
He's thanking you for
that, because it really
meant a lot to him.
And you really saw the goodness
of him when everyone else
didn't.
You saw the goodness in him.
And you're like--
grace of God go me.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I
wouldn't be a bit surprised
if he even used that term.
But for the grace of God go me.
OK?
And I want to thank
you for the flowers.
So I don't know if you planted
some flowers, but your flowers.
And I want to
think you for that.
>>AUDIENCE: I leave
flowers all the time.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You do?
>>AUDIENCE: I
leave flowers, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
He comes to you
with flowers, too.
So when you smell flowers
in the air, it's him.
I know he had a car
that never worked.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He had a
car that never worked.
And he said he doesn't
need cars anymore.
I got to tell you that.
He's healed.
He's healed himself
in the spirit world.
I think he learns fast.
He learns very, very quickly.
He's learning about poisons.
This is interesting.
He said poison in the body.
That's very interesting.
Putting poisons in the body.
Interesting.
So the drugs probably.
But I know he's
worked with groups
of people on the other side,
and he's a fast learner.
He's gone back to school.
He's finally finishing school,
because he didn't finish it
here.
I think he dropped out in his
third year of high school?
Is that right?
>>AUDIENCE: That's right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
Third year of high
school dropped out of.
And he said to tell you that
I'm finishing up school.
You'd be very proud, and
I got to tell you that.
Is his mom still alive?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Would you
let her know I'm with her
and thank her for me please?
>>AUDIENCE: Absolutely.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Please thank
her, because he's really--
and your family helped to
bring him in, by the way.
Your family helped bring him in.
So, he loves you very much.
Thank you.
I don't want you living
your life for me.
He said you got to live
your life for yourself, OK?
Are you not remarried now?
Are you married?
>>AUDIENCE: No.
No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
We want you to get remarried.
He wants you to find
another love in your life.
We really want that
healing to happen.
So for you and for him.
>>AUDIENCE: Absolutely.
OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
No, he's not dead.
He's very much alive.
So think of him that way.
As a guide.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
I'll leave you with that.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you so much.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
I want to come to the father.
Your father passed over?
What is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Amy.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Amy.
Why do you worry, honey?
Why can't you bring
healing to yourself?
Why can't you be happy?
>>AUDIENCE: Good question.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Good question.
I just think that you have
a lot of other people's
energy in your space, and you
try to be something you're not.
And if we always continue
living life that way,
we'll never be happy.
We just got to be
who we are instead
of being what other
people expect.
You're married, are you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Does your husband
support you and acknowledge you
and be there for you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Embrace
you and empower you?
OK, good.
I like that for you.
I like that.
Now, I know that-- is
your mother still living
on the earth?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because
this man comes
in, your father's coming
in here, I got to tell,
dad comes in here.
He's concerned
about your mother.
So he's concerned
She's often talking to
dead people he said.
So she's talking to dead people,
and she's talking in her mind
and she's seeing them and
she's talking to them a lot.
OK?
I understand.
Is there a sister of
her's that passed over
to the world of the spirit?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
Now, when I get your father
coming through for you,
he's worried about your mom
so I got to tell you that.
Now, I know that he's
trying to help things out
with the family as far as
moving her around or changing
the way she is or
this sort of a thing?
Do you understand that?
Is there something
going on right now
about where she's
living or who's
going to take care of her?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great.
Because that's what
your father is on about.
He's talking to me about that.
And he said you're going
to have to do that.
OK?
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I want to do
that before she falls down.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Because this is a conversation
you recently had with someone.
Does that make sense?
Yes or no?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you very much.
You got to answer.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
It's not just in your head.
You got to yes or no, all right?
I'll take nos, too.
You just got to answer.
>>AUDIENCE: Ok.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because I want
to be respectful to them.
He comes through really, really
hard to try and help you.
And he knows that you--
there might be some problems
with-- there is a
sister or a brother?
>>AUDIENCE: Brothers.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Brothers.
And I don't know
why, but I can't
get them to hear what
I want them to hear.
So I don't know if you can't
get through to your brothers
about your mother.
Is there something going
on with that, correct?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I don't know who's
in control of the checkbook.
Is your brother in
control of the checkbook?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know
recently your father said
there are some problems
with the monies
or payments or the checks or
getting her financial stuff
together.
Correct?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
He's been trying
to help over here.
Who's the oldest son?
>>AUDIENCE: Mark.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Mark.
I know that he likes-- well,
he loves-- but all three
very differently.
All three are very,
very different kids.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: But
it's the older one
that he's having a
little trouble with.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Because the older one seems
to be the financial guy.
In charge of things or
wanting to get things.
But he doesn't know what
he's doing, your father said.
Does that make sense to you?
Tell me.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Go ahead.
>>AUDIENCE: He's not in
charge of the financial end,
but he's really
having challenges
with some of the other
things in managing.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And who's the one in
charge of the finances?
>>AUDIENCE: My
other brother, Jay.
>>VAN PRAAGH: The
second brother?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
I don't think that the first
brother and the second brother
get along.
>>AUDIENCE: That is correct.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
Because your father
is having trouble with
the two of those boys.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And he's trying
to get them to get together,
and they're not.
And that-- what?
He's really-- Dad is really
pissed off about this.
He's pissed off about it.
Sorry, he is.
He said, would those two fools
get their heads on straight?
That's how he's saying it.
Would those two fools get
their heads on straight?
Now, who lost a kidney?
Who had problems with a
kidney or kidney breakdown?
Kidneys broke down?
>>AUDIENCE: An old
friend of mine.
>>VAN PRAAGH: An old friend
of yours that passed over?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Is it
a woman that passed
over who had the kidney
dialysis or kidney problems?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
Many years ago.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Well, I know that she
must have kidney problems
or lost one kidney,
specifically,
because I feel like
I want to say hello
from her in the distance.
And that been around you in that
meditation she was with you.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And you could have
seen her in that meditation.
>>AUDIENCE: I did.
>>VAN PRAAGH: But
she's right around you,
and let her family know
she's with you, OK?
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I got
to tell you that.
Your father is saying I'm
trying to work things out,
but one most
important thing is-- I
know he passed away in a
hospital setting of some kind.
I know he's in a hospital bed.
I know I want to lean
my head upon his chest.
And I know someone
does that; that
must've been you doing that.
I know that there
must be machines
around with him,
which is very common,
but know that it's
my time to go.
It's my time to go.
I know there was a military
connection somewhere here as
well, because I know that he
was in the military at one point
when he was younger.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I know that there
are people that come to get him
when it's time for him to come
over to the other
side who are military.
His platoon or
his group of guys.
They're all there
waiting for him, OK?
I feel very much
honored with this man
as far as he must have been
a high level in the military
because they're all,
like, saluting to him.
You understand?
Interesting, isn't it?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
I know that.
Go on.
And the kids always fought.
Those boys always
fought growing up.
Always fought.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And would you
tell them to get their heads out
of their asses
about your mother.
That's how he's saying it.
I don't speak like that,
at least on television.
>>AUDIENCE: Sound a
little bit like him.
>>VAN PRAAGH: But it's him.
It's him.
It's his personality.
It's his energy.
And he said, you've
got to think of mom.
He wants her to be
in a place that's
safe, because he
doesn't feel she's safe.
She's going to fall
down, and that's
going to be the worst thing.
So you need to put
her somewhere where
she can go where you
can all look at her, OK?
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's
what you have to do.
That's his connection.
OK?
And I'm going to
leave you with that.
God bless you.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you, sweetheart.
Before I go to bed at night,
one of the things that I do,
which I'd like to
share with all of you,
is as I'm falling
about to sleep,
I think about every
single part of the day
that I have to send
healing to and someone
that needs healing in my life.
And I imagine them in that
beautiful green ball of light,
of healing.
And I see the people I made
connection with during the day,
and I'll send them healing.
Or other people in the
world who need healing.
And I fall asleep that way.
It's a great way to fall asleep.
So I leave that with
you and all of you.
So thank you, everyone,
very much for being here.
God bless you.
And all of you, thank you.
Thank you very much.